##malware
 Malware or malicious code is any element of software that performs an unwanted function from the perspective of the legitimate user or owner of a computer system.  It is essential that modifying user behavior to avoid risky activities be a core part of a malware security strategy.

    #Randsomware
        Ransomware is a form of malware that takes over a computer system, usually by encrypting user data, to hold data hostage while demanding payment. Ransomware is often sophisticated enough to be able to encrypt files on internal and external storage devices, network shares, and even cloud storage services. if you pay the ransom and receive an encryption key to regain access to your data files, there is no guarantee that this will remove the ransomware from your system.

        Ransomware may not always be immediately noticed by the user of a system. However, performing file encryption is a significant amount of work, so most systems will begin to act sluggishly or potentially even stop responding while the system’s central processing unit (CPU) and memory resources are consumed by the malicious encryption process.

        Symptoms ransomware infection
            1. inability to access data
            2. missing data
            3. system that will not boot
            4. sluggish system (during the encryption processes)
            5. pop-ups demanding payment to decrypt your data

        #Protect Randsomware
            1. avoiding risky behaviors example "Download pirated software"
            2. running advanced antimalware software
            3. maintaining a reliable backup of your data

    #Trojans
        A Trojan or Trojan horse is a means of delivering malicious software by disguising inside of a benign host file. Skilled malicious programmers can create custom Trojans by adding malicious code directly into the source code of the selected host. These tools hide or embed the malicious payload inside of the select benign host file

    #Worms
        Worms are self-contained applications that don’t require becoming attached directly to a host file or hard drive to infect a system. Worms typically are focused on replication and distribution (locally or across a network). Worms can also be designed as delivery mechanisms to drop off other types of malware.

        Symptoms worm infection
            1. slow-to-respond system
            2. applications that no longer will execute
            3. lack of free space on storage devices
            4. CPU and memory utilization maxed out at 100 percent
            5. system crashes
            6. abnormal network activity

    #PUA (Potential Unwanted Application)
        Potentially unwanted Application (PUA) are any type of questionable software, such as sniffers, password crackers, network mappers, port scanners, keystroke loggers, and vulnerability scanners. PUA could be used for an authorized legitimate purpose or for a malicious one.

    #Fileless virus
        Viruses are programs designed to spread from one system to another through self-replication and to perform any of a wide range of malicious activities. Some viruses replicate and spread so rapidly that they consume most of the available system.

        Virus have 2 types file virus(common virus)  and sector virus, sector viruses that attach themselves to the boot sector or master boot record (MBR) of a storage device are known as boot sector viruses.

        malicious activities viruses
            1. data deletion
            2. corruption
            3. alteration
            4. exfiltration

        types of viruses
            1. polymorphic
            2. macro
            3. stealth
            4. armored
            5. retro
            6. phage
            7. companion
            8. multipart/multipartite

        Fileless viruses reside in memory only and do not save themselves to the local storage devices. They are injected into memory by either a file-based injector that then self-destructs or through a network to memory-writing event. This makes discovering them more challenging. Rebooting a system can potentially rid them from a system

        symptoms virus infection
            1. corrupted or missing data files
            2. applications that will no longer execute
            3. slow system operation
            4. lag between mouse click and system response
            5. application or system crashes
            6. ongoing hard drive activity
            7. system’s tendency to be unresponsive to mouse movements or keystrokes
            
    #C&C(Command and Control)
        Command and control (C&C) (a.k.a. C2, herder) is an intermediary serving as the locus of connection between an attacker and bots where commands are distributed and information is exchanged. C&C assists the attacker in remaining anonymous, while controlling botnet agents. 

        communication system used as C&C
            1. internet relay chat (IRC) channels
            2. IM
            3. Facebook accounts
            4. Twitter accounts
            5. file transfer protocol (FTP) sites
            6. email accounts
            7. telnet sites
            8. websites 
            9. (P2P, PTP) systems

    #Bots
         botnet is a shortened form of the phrase “software robot network”. describe a massive deployment of malicious code onto numerous compromised systems that are all remotely controlled by a hacker. 

         bots commond know used 
            1. DoS flooding attacks
            2. transmit spam
            3. password cracking
            4. other malicious activity

        Direct control of a botnet occurs when the bot herder sends commands to each bot.  bots have a listening service on an open port waiting for the communication from the bot herder.  botnet creator writes their botnet code to exploit a common and widespread vulnerability to spread the botnet agent far and wide. This botnet infection code is often called a botnet agent, bot, or zombie.

        Defence again botnets 
            1. keep your systems patched and hardened
            2. not become the host of a botnet agent
            3. Strict outbound firewall rules
            4. spoofed source address filtering
            5. web content filtering
            6. antivirus software and antispyware/adware tools

        Indicators of botnet
            1. slow system performance
            2. abnormal network traffic
            3. strange files appearing
            4. unknown processes
            5. odd program windows appearing on the desktop
            6. abnormal communications to external targets that are significantly large
        
        Botnet agents can be designed to infect any type 
            1. traditional PCs and servers
            2. printers
            3. routers
            4. firewalls
            5. wireless access points
            6. Internet of Things (IoT) devices
            7. security cameras
            8. mobile phones

    #Cryptomalware
        Cryptomalware  uses system resources to mine cryptocurrencies, such as Bitcoin or Monero.  Cryptomalware is often designed to remain hidden and give little hint of its presence on the system.

    #Logic Bombs
        A logic bomb is a form of malicious code that remains dormant until a triggering event or condition occurs.

        Triggering event 
            1. time & date 
            2. specific program 
            3. keystroge combination 
            4. state or condition 
            5. access specifict URL 

        Symptoms logic bomb
            1. abrupt change in system performance
            2. crashing of applications or the system
            3. loss of storage device free space

    #Spyware
        Spyware is any form of malicious code or even business/commercial code that collects information about users without their direct knowledge or permission.  Spyware can be deposited by malware, or it can be installed as an extra element of applications.

        + adware 
            Adware displays pop-up or alternate advertisements to users based on their activities. Some forms of adware display offerings for fake or false security products. They often display an animation that seems like the system is being scanned. This type of malware is also known as scareware or fake security software.

    #Keyloggers
        keylogger is a PUA that records keystrokes.  keylogger usually stores the collected keystrokes in a file, but some only hold data in memory until it is transmitted elsewhere

    #RAT (Remote Access Trojan)
         remote-access Trojan (RAT) is malware that grants an attacker some level of remotecontrol access to a compromised system.RATs are usually downloaded invisibly with a user-requested program -- such as a game -- or sent as an email attachment. 

         symptoms
            1. odd network communications and traffic levels
            2. system that will not auto-engage the screensaver or timed sleep mode
            3. higher levels of drive, CPU, and memory activity
            4. appearance of unknown files on storage devices

    #Rootkit
        rootkit is malware that embeds itself deep within an operating system (OS).  derivative of the concept of rooting and a utility kit of hacking tools. Rooting is gaining total or full control over a system.  rootkit often positions itself deep into the OS, where it can manipulate information seen by the OS and displayed to users.

        effect rootkit 
            1. replace the OS kernel
            2. shim itself under the kernel
            3. replace device drivers
            4. infiltrate application libraries
        
        once you suspect a rootkit is on a system, the only truly secure response is to reconstitute or replace the entire computer. Reconstitution  performing a thorough storage sanitization operation on all storage devices on that system, reinstalling the OS and all applications from trusted original sources, and then restoring files from trusted rootkit-free backups. Rootkit detection is difficult because a rootkit may be able to subvert the software that is intended to find it.

        Detection methods Rootkits
            1. using an alternative and trusted operating system
            2. behavioral-based methods
            3. signature scanning
            4. difference scanning  
            5. memory dump analysis

        Removal can be complicated or practically impossible, especially in cases where the rootkit resides in the kernel; reinstallation of the operating system may be the only available solution to the problem. When dealing with firmware rootkits, removal may require hardware replacement, or specialized equipment.

    #Backdoor
        The term backdoor can refer to two types of problems or attacks on a system. 
            1. backdoor was a developer-installed access method that bypassed all security restrictions.
                backdoor was a special hard-coded user account, password, or command sequence that allowed anyone with knowledge of the access hook to enter the environment and make changes.
            2. backdoor is a hacker-installed remote-access remote-control malicious client.
                backdoor serves as an access portal for hackers so that they can bypass any security restrictions, authentication requirements, and gain (or regain) access to a system can be sent with malware, or intrusion activity.

##Password Attack
    Password-focused attacks are collectively known as password cracking or password guessing. Passwords are usually stored in a hashed format for the security provided by the one-way process. password hash does not contain the password characters, but it is a representation of the password produced by the hashing algorithm. Password hashes can be attacked using reverse engineering, reverse hash matching, or a birthday attack. 

    #Spraying
        Spraying passwords or credential stuffing is the attempt to log into a user account through repeated attempts of submitting generated or pulled-from-a-list credentials. Credential stuffing can be mitigated by sites themselves by implementing account lockout.

    #Dictionary
        dictionary attack performs password guessing by using a preexisting or precompiled list of possible passwords. There are password lists built around topics, from interests, or out of collections of previous credential breaches, as well as dumps of large volumes of written materials.

    #Brute force
        brute-force attack tries every possible valid combination of characters to construct possible passwords. Simple and short passwords can be discovered amazingly quickly with a brute-force approach. 
        
        hybrid attack uses a dictionary list as its password source but uses brute-force techniques to make modifications on a progressively increasing level. Hybrid password attacks are often successful against users who are minimally compliant with a company password policy.

        + Online 
            online password attack occurs against a live logon prompt. This process is also known as password spraying or credential stuffing.

            Account lockout is the security mechanism that allows a set number of logon attempts before the account is locked out.

        + Ofline 
            offline password attack is one in which the attacker is not working against a live target system but instead is working on their own independent computers. attacker will have had to obtain the target’s password hashes and then transferred them to their own computers. Password-cracking operations can take place on the attacker’s own computers or using a cloud computing service. 

    #Rainbow table
        Traditionally, password crackers hashed each potential password and then performed an Exclusive OR (XOR) comparison to check it against the stolen hash. Rainbow tables is a form of password cracking developed to remove the hashing time from the attacking time.

         rainbow table is a precomputed table for caching the output of cryptographic hash functions, usually for cracking password hashes. Rainbow tables do have their limitations. It is difficult to know whether a particular set of hash chains is sufficient to cover or address all or even most of the potential passwords for a given hash. The size of the rainbow table depends on the range of possible passwords. 

    #Plaintext/unencrypted
        It is no longer an acceptable practice to allow authentication to take place over a plaintext or clear-text communication channel. All authentication, without exception, should be encrypted. When older insecure versions of services, such as FTP, Telnet, HTTP.

##Physical Attack 
    Physical attacks can include attempts to gain access into a facility, damage a facility, steal equipment, damage equipment, plant software or listening devices, clone data, and physically harm personnel.

    #Malicious Universal Serial Bus (USB) cable
        malicious universal serial bus (USB) cable is a device crafted to perform unwanted activities against a computer and/or mobile device or peripheral without the victim realizing the attack is occurring.

            1. malicious USB cable could be designed to function as a hardware keystroke logger, but may require that the keyboard be connected to the bad USB cable directly. 
            2. malicious USB cable could be designed to function as a file copying device. This would involve the scanning of other storage devices for files of interest and then copying them to the storage space embedded in the bad USB cable.
            3. malicious USB cable could be designed to function as an injector of malicious code. The bad USB cable can have storage space to host malicious code that is injected into a PC or mobile device once the cable is connected.
            4. malicious USB cable could be designed to function as a remote access tool using an embedded WiFi adapter, allowing it to be connected to by a nearby hacker using a smartphone or portable PC.
            5. malicious USB cable could be designed to function as a false keyboard or mouse. A hacker could pre-program a series of keystrokes to be transmitted from the memory of the malicious USB cable to the victim PC to carry out any operation from the keyboard.
            6. malicious USB cable could be designed to destroy a connected system through electricity discharge. This can be accomplished by allowing embedded capacitors to charge up on the small amount of electricity from a USB port over time.
            7. malicious USB cable is not going to be easy to detect, recognize, or notice. They are manufactured to mimic the coloring, style, and dimensions of common USB cables. 

    #Malicious flash drive
        All of the malicious concepts mentioned for malicious USB cables also apply to USB drives, flash drives, and even memory cards.
        
    #Card cloning
        Card cloning is the duplication or skimming of data from a targeted source card and writing it onto a blank new card. Some methods of preventing credit card cloning and fraud include the requirement of a PIN at the time of use, encryption of all card to POS transactions, and the generation of random reference codes to each place of purchase as well as to each individual transaction. Card cloning can also be used against subscriber identity module (SIM) cards used in mobile phones and other devices.

    #Skimming
        Skimming is used in card cloning.

##Supply-chain Attack 
    Most organizations rely upon products manufactured as part of a long and complex supply chain. Attacks on that supply chain could result in flawed or less reliable products or could allow for remote access or listening mechanisms to be embedding into otherwise functioning equipment.

    These types of attacks present a risk that can be challenging to address. 
        1. organization may elect to inspect all equipment to reduce the chance of modified devices going into production networks. 
        2. Organizations can choose to source products from trusted and reputable vendors, maybe even attempting to use vendors that manufacture most of their products domestically.
        
##Cloud-based and On-Premises attack 
    1. on-premises attacks are more likely to be intentionally focused on your organization.
    2. cloud-based attacks are more likely a matter of opportunity, in that the attackers found a flaw in a cloud service and your account just happened to be hit in the process.

##Cryptograhic Attack
    Cryptographic attacks are the means and methods by which hackers attempt to overcome the mechanisms of encryption to breach the security that such systems provide.

    #Birthday
        birthday attack is a type of cryptographic attack that exploits the mathematics behind the birthday problem in probability theory. This attack can be used to abuse communication between two or more parties. for more information you can read this (https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Birthday_attack).

    #Collision
         collision attack on a cryptographic hash tries to find two inputs producing the same hash value,  in contrast to a preimage attack where a specific target hash value is specified.

    #Downgrade
        downgrade attack, also called a bidding-down attack[1] or version rollback attack, is a form of cryptographic attack on a computer system or communications protocol that makes it abandon a high-quality mode of operation (e.g. an encrypted connection) in favor of an older, lower-quality mode of operation (e.g. cleartext) that is typically provided for backward compatibility with older systems.
