## Scenario and Analyze Application Attack 
    in this section we learn a variety attack and exploitations used attackers to exfiltrate data or logical/pyhsical access to target

    #Arbitrary Code Execution/Remote Code Execution
        arbitrary code execution (ACE) is an attacker's ability to run any commands or code of the attacker's choice on a target machine or in a target process. program that is designed to exploit such a vulnerability is called an arbitrary code execution exploit. The ability to trigger arbitrary code execution over a network (especially via a wide-area network such as the Internet).

    #Privilege Escalation
        Privilege escalation occurs when a user is able to obtain greater permissions, access, or privileges. Privilege escalation is a tactic employed by hackers who are attempting to obtain a broader range of permissions, access, and capabilities.

        Privilege escalation can take place via weaknesses in the OS or an application. Often a hacker tool is used to exploit a programming flaw to obtain permanent or temporary access to a privileged group or account. Auditing and monitoring should be configured to watch for privilege-escalation symptoms. 
    
    
    #Cross-site Scripting (XSS)
        Cross-site scripting (XSS) is a type of security vulnerability that can be found in some web applications. XSS attacks enable attackers to inject client-side scripts into web pages viewed by other users. A cross-site scripting vulnerability may be used by attackers to bypass access controls such as the same-origin policy.

        XSS attack impact
            1. identity theft
            2. credential theft
            3. personally identifiable information (PII) privacy violations
            4. data theft
            5. financial losses
            6. planting of remote-control software on visiting clients

        XSS Attack Type
            1. persistent XSS attack
                plants poisoned material on the website to be served to any future visitors. Most XSS attacks do not require that the victim authenticate to a website for harm to occur.
            2. reflective XSS attack
                places the malicious content in the request of the visitor, so the harmful response or result from the website is actually a reflection of the request. when a phishing email is sent to victims with a hyperlink that includes the malicious script.
            3. Direct object model (DOM)
                take advantage of vulnerabilities in the client-side browser rather than issues on the server side.  triggered DOM-based XSS performs all of the malicious actions within the client’s system without communicating with a web server.

        Defence again XSS Attack
            as administrator website 
                1. maintaining a patched web server
                2. using web application firewalls
                3. operating a host-based intrusion detection system (HIDS)
                4. auditing for suspicious activity
                5. performing serverside input validation for length, malicious content, and escaping or filtering metacharacters

            as web user 
                1. keeping your system patched
                2. running antivirus software
                3. avoiding non-mainstream websites

    #Injections 
        injection attack is any exploitation that allows an attacker to submit code to a target system to modify its operations and/or poison and corrupt its data set. injection attack is named after the type of backend system it takes advantage of or the type of payload delivered (injected) onto the target. 

        variations of injection attacks
            1. command
                command injection attack focuses on executing malicious commands on a vulnerable target system. This type of attack is possible when unsafand unfiltered data is passed from the vulnerable application to a system shell, terminal, or command prompt. to protect command injection (Proper input sanitization, filtering, and validation would generally eliminate this risk).
            2. code
                Code injection attacks differ from command injections because additional malicious code is added to an existing script or application. Then once that compromised script or application executes, the additional code will execute as well.
            3. Hypertext Markup Language (HTML)
                HTML injection is effectively a reflected XSS event, but instead of using JavaScript or other code, it plants custom HTML statements. 
            4. file injection
                File injection attempts to deposit a file on a target system. This can be attempted using a variety of techniques. 

        + SQL(Structured query language) Attack 
            Structured query language (SQL) injection (SQLi) attacks use unexpected input to alter or compromise a web application. SQL injection (SQLi) attacks are used to gain unauthorized access to a backend database and related assets.

            SQLi Attack Impact 
                1. bypass authentication
                2. reveal confidential data from database tables
                3. change existing data
                4. add new records into the database
                5. destroy entire tables or databases
                6. gain command line

            Input validation or sanitization limits the types of data a user provides in a form. 
                1. limiting the length of input
                2. filtering on known malicious content patterns
                3. escaping metacharacters

        + DLL(Dynamic-link Library) attack
            Dynamic-link library (DLL) injection or DLL hijacking is an advanced software exploitation technique that manipulates a process’s memory to trick it into loading additional code and thus performing operations the original author did not intend. DLL (dynamic-link library) is a collection of code that is designed to be loaded and used as needed by a process. DLL injection attack is performed by replacing a valid DLL file with a modified one or manipulating an active process into using a malicious DLL. primary defense of mitigation of DDL injection or hijacking is to hard code DLL calls into the application rather than relying upon the OS to select which DLL to pull.

        + LDAP(Lightweight Directory Access Protocols) attack
            Lightweight directory access protocol (LDAP) injection is a variation of an input injection attack; however, the focus of the attack is on the backend of an LDAP directory service rather than a database server, sanitization of input and defensive coding are essential to eliminate this threat.

        + XML(Extensible Markup Language) attack
            XML injection is another variant of SQL injection, where the backend target is an XML application. Again, input sanitization is necessary to eliminate this threat.
        
    #Directory Traversal
        directory traversal is an attack that enables an attacker to jump out of the web root directory structure and into any other part of the filesystem hosted by the web server’s host OS.

    #Buffer Overflows
        A buffer overflow is a memory exploitation that takes advantage of a software’s lack of input length validation. This attack may result in extra data “overflowing” the assigned memory buffer and overwriting memory in the adjacent locations. 

        Poor programming quality controls and a lack of input validation checks in software lead to buffer overflow attacks. main countermeasures to buffer overflow attacks are to patch the software when issues are discovered and to properly code software to perform input-validation and sanitization checks before accepting input for processing.

        Protect again Buffer Overflows 
            1. data execution prevention (DEP)
                DEP blocks the execution of code stored in areas of memory designated as data-only areas.
            2. address space layout randomization (ASLR)
                ensures that the various elements of the OS are loaded into randomly assigned memory locations at each bootup.
            3. No-eXecute (NX) bit
                NX bit is used to segregate memory into an area to store code (i.e., processor instructions) and another to store data.

    #Race Conditions 
        Attackers can develop attacks based on the predictability of task execution or the timing of execution, known as race condition attacks or asynchronous attacks.
        + Time check / time use 
            Time-of-check-to-time-of-use (TOCTTOU or TOC/TOU) attacks are often called race condition attacks because the attacker is racing with the legitimate process to replace the object before it is used.
    
    #Improper Error Handling
        Improper error handling may allow for the leaking of essential information to attackers or enable attackers to force a system into an insecure state. If error messages are not handled properly, they may disclose details about a flaw or weakness that will enable an attacker to fine-tune their exploit.

        If errors themselves are not handled properly, it could cause an application to disclose confidential data to a visitor, allow an attacker to bypass authentication, or even crash the system. When an error is detected, the error management system should display a generic error message to the user, such as “error try again” or “error, contact technical support.” The error management system should log all details about the error into a file for the administrator, but should not disclose those details to the user.

        Another mechanism to handle errors, which is supported by many languages, is a try..catch statement. This logical block statement is used to place code that could result in an error on the try branch, and then code that will be executed if there is an error on the catch branch.

        If an error could result in security violations, a general error fault response known as failsecure should be initiated.  fail-secure system will revert to a secured, closed, protective state in the event of a failure rather than into an open, insecure, nonprotected state where information can be disclosed or modified.

    #Improper input handling
        Improper input handling occurs when an application is designed to simply accept whatever data is submitted as input without validation or sanitization. This type of lazy application design leads to a wide range of exploitations, including injection attacks, buffer overflows, and privilege escalation.

        securely designed program protects against invalid or malicious input using input sanitization, input filtering, or input validation. There are three main forms of input filtering: check for length, filter for known malware patterns, and escape metacharacters.

        Input validation (a.k.a. input sanitization and input filtering) is an aspect of defensive programming intended to ward off a wide range of input-focused attacks, such as buffer overflows and fuzzing. Input validation checks each and every input received before it’s allowed to be processed.

    #Replay attack
        replay attack (also known as a repeat attack or playback attack) is a form of network attack in which valid data transmission is maliciously or fraudulently repeated or delayed. attacker can capture authentication traffic—especially the packets containing the logon credentials—then a replay attack may grant the attacker the ability to masquerade as the victim user on the system. 

        Protect again Replya attack
            1. Challenge-response is a type of authentication where the server generates and issues a random number challenge to the connecting client. The client uses the challenge number and the hash of the user’s password to generate a response.

            2. Ephemeral session key is the term for the use of Diffie-Hellman Ephemeral (DHE) or Elliptic-Curve Diffie-Hellman Ephemeral ECDHE to generate random, nonrepeating, non-reusable, nonpredictable, session-specific symmetric encryption keys.

            Replay attacks can also be used to abuse a wide number of systems by repeating functions or actions that were intended to be performed only one time. Replay attacks can also be attempted in wireless environments, and many continue to focus on initial authentication abuse. However, many other wireless replay attack variants exist. They include capturing the new connection request of a typical client and then replaying that request to fool the base station into responding as if another new client connection request had been initiated. 


        + Session replays
             session replay is the recording of a subject’s visit to a website, interacting with a mobile application, or using a PC application, which is then played back by an administrator, investigator, or programmer to understand what occurred and why based on the subject’s activities.

             captured session could include keystrokes, object selections (from mouse or touchscreen), screen view, packets transmitted, as well as console, network, and application logs. The goal of using session replays is to improve the subject, user, or customer experience by being able to “replay” exactly what they did and saw when they encountered an issue.

             Session replays can also be used to gather data about a system’s usability as well as the visitor’s/user’s behavior.

    #Integer Overflow 
        integer overflow occurs when an arithmetic operation attempts to create a numeric value that is outside of the range that can be represented with a given number of digits – either higher than the maximum or lower than the minimum representable value.

    #Request Forgeries 
        Request forgeries are exploitations that make malicious requests of a service in such a way that the request seems legitimate or at least coming from a legitimate source, and therefore the service performs the task requested. There are two primary types of request forgeries: server-side and cross-site.
        + Server-Side (SSRF)
            SSRF is a server site attack that leads to sensitive information disclosure from the back-end server of the application. In server site request forgery attackers send malicious packets to any Internet-facing web server and this webserver sends packets to the back end server running on the internal network on behalf of the attacker. This vulnerability is mostly found in the application that has the facility to feed the URL for fetching data from the respective servers, also present in the application in which two or more servers from different hosts communicate with each other for information sharing.

                Types Of SSRF
                    1. Blind SSRF
                        Blind SSRF, attackers are not able to control the data of packet B  that are sent to the application in a trusted internal network. Here attacker can control the IP address and ports of the server. To exploit this type of SSRF we have to feed the URL followed by the colon and port number, by observing responses and error messages from the server we can find the open and close ports of the server. We have tried this procedure for the different ports to check their status.

                    2. Limited Response / Partial SSRF
                        we get a limited response from the server like the title of the page or get access to resources but can’t see the data. We can control only certain parts of packet B that arrive at the internal application this type of vulnerability can be used to read local system files such as /etc/config, /etc/hosts, etc/passwd, and many others.

                    3. Full Response SSRF
                        Full SSRF we have complete control over Packet B (shown in fig). Now we can access the services running on the internal network and find the vulnerabilities in the internal network. In this type of SSRF we can use the protocols like file://, dict://, http://, gopher://, etc. here we have a large scope of creating different requests and exploiting the internal network if any vulnerabilities are present. Full SSRF vulnerability may cause the application to crash through a buffer overflow, by sending a large string in the request causes the buffer overflow.

        + Cross Site (XSRF)
            Cross-site request forgery (XSRF) also called Client-side request forgery (CSRF) is a type of malicious exploit of a website where unauthorized commands are submitted from a user that the web application trusts. the attack is initially focused on the visiting user’s web browser more than the website being visited. The main purpose of XSRF is to trick the user or the user’s browser into performing actions they had not intended or would not have authorized.

            XSRF usually requires that the victim be authenticated before the harmful activities are initiated. The whole point of XSRF is to impersonate a valid authenticated user through request forgeries.

            Website administrators can implement prevention measures against XSRF by requiring confirmations or reauthentication whenever a sensitive or risky action is requested by a connected client. This could include requiring the user to reenter their password, sending a code to the user via text message or email that must be provided back to the website, triggering a phone call–based verification, or solving a CAPTCHA.

            Another potential protection mechanism is to add a randomization string (called a nonce) to each URL request and session establishment and check the client HTTP request header referrer for spoofing. 
            
                Protect User again XSRF Attack 
                    1. running antimalware scanners
                    2. using a HIDS
                    3. running a firewall
                    4. avoiding non-mainstream websites
                    5. always logging off from sites instead of closing the browser, closing the tab, or moving on to another URL
                    6. clearing out temporary files and cached cookies regularly.

    #Application Programming Interface (API) attacks 
        APIs are an essential element of modern IT environments, including web applications, mobile devices, IoT equipment, and cloud services. Simply, an API is the means by which software talks to other software to exchange information. An API can be authenticated, encrypted, restrictive with what information it reveals, and skeptical of the data it receives, or an API can be open, plaintext, and having little to no filtering of input and output (I/O).

        majority of attacks and intrusions are effectively API attacks. If a system accepts user input or input from another application, there is a risk of an API abuse. This includes injection attacks, XSS, CSRF, SSRF, buffer overflows, race conditions, replay attacks, request forgeries, and more.

        API attacks can be used to perform logon or authentication bypass, DoS attacks, data exfiltration, parameter tampering, on-path exploits, encryption downgrade attacks, and application abuse.

        To reduce the occurrence of successful API attacks, input sanitization is essential, along with requiring authentication and robust communication encryption. Other important security measures to protect APIs include blocking outsider or unknown third-party access, allow-listing source identities, rate limiting queries, implement HIDS monitoring, and record API access logs.

    #Resource Exhaustion 
        Resource exhaustion occurs when applications are allowed to operate in an unrestricted and unmonitored manner so that all available system resources are consumed in the attempt to serve the requests of valid users or in response to a DoS attack.

        Resource exhaustion can occur due to external communications or requests and internal application issues. 
            1. External sources of exhaustion could be a malicious DoS or an unintentional DoS due to recent increased popularity of your site and services. 
            2. Internal application issues could be the result of poor planning during implementation, caused by a memory leak, or effected by malicious code.

    #Memory Leak
        memory leak occurs when a program fails to release memory or continues to consume more memory. It’s called a leak because the overall computer system ends up with less available free memory when an application is causing a memory leak. Depending on the speed of the memory leak, the issue may not be noticeable in typical circumstances or may quickly degenerate, causing system failures. Programmers should focus on properly managing memory and releasing memory allocations once they are no longer needed.

    #Secure Sockets Layer (SSL) stripping
        

    #Driver Manipulation 

    #Pass the hash

        